- [Instructor] Properties in a POM file
are often an indication of someone
who has manipulated POM files for some time
and has felt pain that the properties aim to solve.
So before we jump into configuration,
let's talk about the purpose.
Properties have several key features that I find value in.
First, is it reduces duplication.
Often times when configuring the POM,
you find yourself putting the same value for an item
and properties helped reduce that.
In the same vain, it allows you to streamline configuration.
Often when used in conjunction with a parent POM,
which we'll talk about later,
you can radically improve the configuration.
You also get the benefit of keeping items in sync.
Especially versions of similar libraries.
Properties allow you to leverage a version once
and reference it.
Again, it stands in the same light
that once you have abstracted versions to a property,
you can upgrade in one place
by upgrading the property itself.
So let's open our project and specifically the POM file
in our presidents application
so that we can leverage properties.
So in the exercise files, you'll see that there is,
in learning Maven, a POM file
and there is also a directory
called learning Maven presidents.
Open that up, and open up the POM file in that directory.
This is the POM file for our project.
And we'll go through and talk about these
as we go throughout the course.
But the first thing that I want to do
is I want to add some properties here.
So we'll start with the properties section,
and then we're going to add a few properties.
The first one we're going to do is jackson.version
and the version that we are using is 2.9.8
and you can see that here
by scrolling down just a little bit.
We're also going to do an slf4j version
and we're using 1.7.25
and we're going to add a j unit.jupiter version.
Now you don't have to use properties just for versions,
but this is one of the most common uses of properties.
Now we're going to mention a Java version
and in this case it's 11.
And then the last one that we're going to set
is a sure fire version.
Now if you're wondering how I picked which properties
we were going to choose, the way I did that
is by looking at what was replicated below
in the dependencies and the plug-ins.
So let's go to the first dependency
which is jackson and we've defined a property for that.
Now the syntax to reference a property is
dollar sign, curly brace,
and then you type in the property name,
in this case jackson.version.
We're going to do the same thing
throughout the rest of our POM.
Wherever we've created a property that we can use,
we're going to go ahead
and replace the value with that property.
Now not everything has a property
because we haven't duplicated them,
so there's no real value yet in adding them.
Now some projects reference properties for everything
and that's totally up to the developer.
As I finish this up,
we should get to the point
where there is no more duplication of version numbers
in our project.
You'll see that I don't just have to use it for versions,
I can actually use it here for a Java version.
Which, while it is a version technically,
it's not a plug-in version or a dependency version,
it's a configuration version.
This is really powerful
if you want an easy way to upgrade your Java versions.
And with that, we're good to go.
Now this variable syntax for referencing properties
is also leveraged by the platform itself.
There are a plethora of properties
that you can tie into when doing your project processing.
And I suggest you read up on the Maven documentation,
especially around interpolation.